I think the economic analysis on the news
most of the time is horrendously bad
you might as well not listen to it really
you're better off trying to build your
connections with friends, family, workmates to build
an understanding of what's happening in their lives
I think you need to have an understanding
of the country that we live in which is
that there are a lot of very poor people there
are a lot of very poor people in this country
and its growing but there is also a big chunk
of people in the middle who own property
own some wealth and are feeling insecure
becausethey're losing, this is the world that
we live in right, we have a big chunk, a big growing
chunk of poor and then we have a decent chunk of
what do they call them? The Precariat, you know
people who own property but they can see that
the truth is you know we just done the video
just now the 'dying middle class', "the death of
the middle class" so you have this middle class, it's
shrinking, generation after generation it's shrinking
so these guys are feeling ****in insecure because
theyare insecure, right they are insecure, but if
the political environment we create is: the poor
against the integral middle class we're never
gonna ****in win like that are we you need to
create this alliance of the poor and the integral
middle class against the very rich who are taking
everything, that's what you need to create and it's
yeah if if we allow there to be division where
the very poor are like its the middle class ****s
not protecting us, you know I know, it's.. I've
been poor and I've been part of this property
owning middle class you know, I've been in bothof
these spaces you know & most people who are poor
even.. most people who are poor aspire to be in that
property owning middle class because it's ****in ****
being poor, you know what I mean, I ****in been
it,there's no ****in fun, but if you turn around
to them and say what we're going to do iswe're
going to attack the property owning middle class
that's what they want to be, that youknow,
so I think you need to be able to build..
and I think we can, I think we can do it, I thinkwe
can do it and I think, I think that some sometimes
some people on the political left, sometimes
encourage that infighting, but we can't have
infighting, we need to build unity, we need to build
unity and we need to understand that that means
creating alliances between people in different
financial positions, you know what I mean some
people who are very poor & some people who own
assets but you know otherwise how did we win?
you know if you, if you create that fight at the
sametime the Super Rich are taking everything,
it's a little bit like you're playing chess and the
otherside is just taking your pieces one at a time
you know those are the guys who are takingthe
****ing pieces, that is where the wealth is going
if you don't attack the peoplewho
are taking the things that you need
you know, you're going to lose right, you
need to fight power where it is, you know
did you read um 1984? 1984 by George
Orwellso there's a bit of 1984 called the..
is it three minutes hate? three minutes
hatei think and i think the point of that
is like they show them some videos to
make them angry, but a big point of it is
when you get people angry, it's actually
quite easy to shift the target of their anger
you get people angry and you shift the target
of their anger because people don't really
understand how the system works, but we don't
really, people know they're getting ****edover
and they are getting ****ed over right butpeople
don't understand exactly how or exactly why
because it is confusing right and a big part
of this channel is to just make it clear, listen
we know that your family is struggling, we know
that your family is getting worse off, and the
reason is because you as a group are losing out to
this Super Rich who are taking more & more & more
and you need to defend yourself from that
group and we need to unite to defend ourselves
from that group we're trying to make clarity, look
we understand your problem, this is the problem,
this is how you fix it, you need to deal with this
group of people but people don't understand that
right they're angry and they're scared and I
think when you make people angry and scared
it's so easy to throw them a group and be like
'these are the guys to be angry at' especially
when people don't actually understand what's
happening. people want to focus. people don't like
to feel like 'oh my God, I'm stressed, I'm anxious,
I don't know the problem' and that's that's why
you see the media throws 'ooh it's immigrants,
it's immigrants' you know what I mean or it's
just stop oil protesters those ****heads them you
know what I mean they're the guys doing it or
it's ****in cyclists you know like people are angry
people are scared but people don't understand
what's happening so the media just throws in
people to hate, people to hate so the hatred is
there, the hatred is there but we're just throwing
it amongst each other and we're hating each other
and we're not actually taking action against the
group that is taking all of our stuff and you know
the idea the media throws you aboutthem is
'oh we need them, if they leave we're ****ed,
we need them, they protect us' because they're the
guys who own the ****in media know what i mean
so the angeris there, the hatred is there,
but you know there's....
its as classic as divide and rule isn't it? there's
a billionaire owned media that just want us
to hate each other and confuse us about the
economic picture, so our job is to say no listen
you and we need to put aside ourdifferences
to prevent this disasterfromhappening
which is the super richtaking our stuff
and if we do thatthen we can have a
much better qualityof life, that's the
message we need to send
it's funny yeah because I actually watched the
super mainstream media and the reason I do
that is because I want to know what people are
being told because I I want to be able to sort of
I want to understand what people are being told
so I can sort of set them straight you know what
I mean, like you're getting this message but
the reality is this so I watched like super
I watch BBC News and I watch Sky News you
know sometimes I think it's not great um
but I mean really really I watch the markets
that's what I do I'm going to, people are going
to watch this and be like I need to become a
trader! I have a trading account and I trade
and I look every day what's moving, I talk to
traders you know obviously I was a full-time
trader for a long time and I'm still in touch
with some traders that I used to work with um
and I say you know this is moving this way, what do
you think of it, that's moving that way, it's like
I'm generally or if there's any big movements
in markets I'm aware that they've happened and
yeah i look at what the traders think, what the
markets think, that's not to say that I think
the traders & the markets are always right but
I think these guys are the best informed people
um so I want to know what they think and then I
I do my own analysis of it. I think watch...
oh first of all if this if there's stuff that you really
want to know put it in the comments because we
do go through them and like if a lot of people are
asking for the same thing then we will cover it
right so if there's a specific thing that you're
worried about, you don't understand, go through
um obviously um watch this channel
ithink this is like, the whole idea of
this channel is to make ordinary people
better informed about what's happening
um but I think ordinary people, watch the news
but just, just have a sceptical eye, don't be like
'everything's a lie' but don't be like 'everything's
true' just like I think the truth of the media is
different media organizations have their own
biases right even something like the BBC has
a bias everything has a bias this channel
has a bias this channel is obviously about
saying inequality is a problem and we need
to tax the rich you know what I mean and
you should watch everything with an
understanding of what the bias is
um if you find the media stressing you out,
turnit off, because I think a lot I think a lot of
what the media does is just stress peopleout,
stresses people out, it makes people feel
helpless, it makes people feel like 'oh my God the
situation is helpless, there's nothing we can do'
don't get stressed I would say realistically
so when I was a trader at Citibank there was
one point where I lost a lot of money and I
started to bring my textbooks in to try and
understand what's happening and I worked
withthis one trader who was um, proper
working class background, he never went
to university, he was a great trader
a really great trader and he justslapped the
textbooks out of my book, out of my hand
and was like listen if you want.. he was like..
he said how old are you and I was like, I dunno
22 or 23 and he was like listen you're not akid
anymore if you want to understand the economy
go and look at what's happening, walk down the
High Street, look at what shops are closing down,
look at like what's being advertised on the tube,
look at is there more homeless people are less
homeless people, talk to your mum ask her about
her financial situation, talk to your friends and
and find out what's happening with their financial
situation, your friends and your friends family so
I think the economic analysis on the news most of
the time is horrendously bad, you might as well not
listen to it really, you're better off tryingto build
your connections with friends, family,workmates
to build understanding what's happening
in in their lives, I honestly think that that of
course be aware that you know, things might be
different in other parts of the country or other
communities you know you're not going to know
thatthe rich are getting much richer if you do that
but you build those connections that givesyou
a better understanding of what's happening
um and then yeah you know are there any
sort of other media outlets we recommend
um obviously Novara have been very helpful,
supported us a lot um but I think you have to
just.. what.. there's a lot of misinformation on
the internet and you know we try and do our
best to do that, um to to do that? to fix that!
we try to do our best to put that right um
but yeah I think try not to freak out because I
think a lot of the news can do that um turn it off
if it's stressing you out, if you have specific
things you want to know about put them in the
comments we can't promise we'll do them but if we
get the same thing asked a lot we will cover it
um but yeah I think you're better off like working
on your your friends, your family, stay with them
talk to them, be open with your friends and your
family about what's happening and then that will
give you at least a realistic understanding of
what's happening around you, yeah and if you
find that the news you're consuming is making
youreally angry just stop and think 'do these
guys have some motivation to make me angry
atthose people?' you know what I mean?
does it benefit them because I think there's a
lot,you know you know, because people could
turn around and criticise us and say well you're
trying to make us angry with the rich, angry at
billionaires, to be honest I'm not even trying to
make people angry at the rich, angry at billionaires
what I want is so people don't understand that
this economy is driving off of a ****ing cliff
that's what people I want people to understand
that's all you know it's not about being angryat
anyone I don't want to point a finger atGeorge
Osborne or Rishi Sunak you know I never
met these guys they might be nice guys for all
I know it'd be a surprise but they might be nice
guys right this is not about being angry right
I am somebody who made millions of pounds a year
and continues to make a ton of money by betting
that the economy is driving off of a cliff and
that is my simple message we need to stop that from
happening we need to stop that from happening and
the only way to stop that from happening is
significantly increased taxation of the rich
it's as simple as that it's not about being
angry it's not about being angry if youand
me and our mates are in a car and one ofour
mates is driving the car of the edge of a cliff
you ain't going to help no one by being angry you
can take that wheel and you stop it from going
off the cliff it's as simple as that like we need
there is a disaster happening when you look at how
significantly living standards have fallen in the
last three years it's not going to keep happening
at that speed but I guarantee you, I guarantee you
in five years in 10 years there'll be more poverty
significantly more poverty but we can prevent that
we can prevent that if we fix our taxation systems
if we fix our type and if we don't then we won't
prevent it and you'll have that poverty and you
will have this broad poverty across most of the
population that you see in countries like India
that you see in countries like Brazil thatyou're
seeing in countries like Colombia youknow
that you see in countries like Russia this
is what capitalist economies usually look like
and the reason that we don't have that kind
of poverty here in Western Europe and in the
States is because we have protected our wealth
distribution and we've prevented it from becoming
extremely unequal but that is what capitalist
economies become if you don't stop that and we're
not stopping that and that is where we will all go
so it's I'm not trying to tell anybody say anybody
what I'm saying is in fact what I'm saying is the
opposite we need to get together to prevent this
disaster and I would encourage even the rich and
even the I'm a rich person myself right I would
encourage the rich and the very rich to support
this message because it's in nobody's interest
to massively destabilise society like what we
are doing, you know last time this happened last
time we saw this massive increase in inequality
massive collapse in living standards, what happened
two ****in world wars a ****in Holocaust is
what happened right that is what can happen
if you allow your society to collapse it's not in
anybody's interests it's not in anybody's interest
so this is not about hating people this is about
bringing people together to prevent a disaster
and I know I've just said people shouldn't
panic and then I've said we're gonna like
go into this sort of space but,
it'sfixable, it's fixable, it's fixable
if we bring people together,
bring people together, its..
it's doable because you know even if you even if
you were to accept that the richest 10% or even the
richest 20% will always oppose it right and some
of them you know I mean I'm in the richest 20%
and I'm not opposing it right? some of these rich
people will support it but even if you assume 20%
of people oppose it that leaves 80%, 80% of people
isdefinitely not in their interest to allow this
to continue definitely definitely so we need to
find a ways to reach those people and say listen
this is what's going to happen we don't change
anything& it's you know and the power that we have
and the power that we always have is that
we'reright, so people can come back in 5 years
and 10 years and watch this video and be like
**** me he was right just like people now can
go back and watch our videos at the beginning of
Covid and say it was right, this is the power that
we have on this channel is that the predictions
are correct because the understanding is correct
because it will happen it will happen because
it's inevitable we we can see it in front of
our eyes the loss of the wealth of the middle
class and the growth in poverty we can see
nothing could be more obvious so these things
will happen and we need to keep saying that
but what I need to think about, you need to think
about& the viewers need to think about is how do
we bring people on board, how do you bring people
on board, how do we fight against narratives that
drive us to hate one another? can we, can we be
big enough as people to reach out across the lines
that we're being told to divide ourselvesagainst
property owners, non-property owners, people from
the North, people from London, you see they're
trying to drive ethnic division, you see they're
trying to drive gender division, you see they're
trying to drive age division, you know what I mean
we can't accept that we have to be willing to look
to people who are different from ourselves and say
listen we have a common interest here we have to
be able to do that we have to be able to do that
that is the only way that we will prevent a disaster
um but yeah it comes from a place of positivity
right not fear, of ability to connect to other
people and and just the message is simple
listen if we don't do anything here it's disaster for
80-90% of people you know you know really unequal
economies do not have 10% of people living a good
standard of living, they don't and that's where we're
going to go you know so we can all kick ourselves
inthe nuts to try and be in the top 5% orwe can
we can keep a good standard living for most
people and its in everybody's interest to lead there